Thanksgiving is a national holiday celebrated on various dates in the United States, Canada, Grenada, Saint Lucia, and
Liberia. It began as a day of giving thanks and sacrifice for the blessing of the harvest and of the preceding year.
Similarly named festival holidays occur in Germany and Japan. Thanksgiving is celebrated on the second Monday of October
in Canada and on the fourth Thursday of November in the United States and around the same part of the year in other places.
Although Thanksgiving has historical roots in religious and cultural traditions, it has long been celebrated as a secular
holiday as well.

Prayers of thanks and special thanksgiving ceremonies are common among most religions after harvests and at other times.[1]
The Thanksgiving holiday's history in North America is rooted in English traditions dating from the Protestant Reformation.
It also has aspects of a harvest festival, even though the harvest in New England occurs well before the late-November date
on which the modern Thanksgiving holiday is celebrated.

In the English tradition, days of thanksgiving and special thanksgiving religious services became important during the English
Reformation in the reign of Henry VIII and in reaction to the large number of religious holidays on the Catholic calendar.
Before 1536 there were 95 Church holidays, plus 52 Sundays, when people were required to attend church and forego work and
sometimes pay for expensive celebrations. The 1536 reforms reduced the number of Church holidays to 27, but some Puritans
wished to eliminate all Church holidays, including Christmas and Easter. The holidays were to be replaced by specially called
Days of Fasting or Days of Thanksgiving, in response to events that the Puritans viewed as acts of special providence.
Unexpected disasters or threats of judgement from on high called for Days of Fasting. Special blessings, viewed as coming
from God, called for Days of Thanksgiving. For example, Days of Fasting were called on account of drought in 1611, floods
in 1613, and plagues in 1604 and 1622. Days of thanksgiving were called following the victory over the Spanish Armada in
1588 and following the deliverance of Queen Anne in 1605.[3] An unusual annual Day of Thanksgiving began in 1606 following
the failure of the Gunpowder Plot in 1605 and developed into Guy Fawkes Day on November 5.[3]

Columbia University (also known as Columbia, and officially as Columbia University in the City of New York) is a private Ivy
League research university in New York City. Established in 1754 as King's College on the grounds of Trinity Church in Manhattan,
Columbia is the oldest institution of higher education in New York and the fifth-oldest institution of higher learning in the
United States. It is one of nine colonial colleges founded prior to the Declaration of Independence, seven of which belong to the
Ivy League. Columbia is ranked among the top universities in the world by major education publications.[9][10][11]

Columbia was established by royal charter under George II of Great Britain. It was renamed Columbia College in 1784 following
the American Revolution, and in 1787 was placed under a private board of trustees headed by former students Alexander Hamilton
and John Jay. In 1896, the campus was moved to its current location in Morningside Heights and renamed Columbia University.

Columbia scientists and scholars have played a pivotal role in scientific breakthroughs including brain-computer interface;
the laser and maser;[12][13] nuclear magnetic resonance;[14] the first nuclear pile; the first nuclear fission reaction in
the Americas; the first evidence for plate tectonics and continental drift;[15][16][17] and much of the initial research and
planning for the Manhattan Project during World War II. Columbia is organized into twenty schools, including four undergraduate
schools and 16 graduate schools. The university's research efforts include the Lamont–Doherty Earth Observatory, the Goddard
Institute for Space Studies, and accelerator laboratories with Big Tech firms such as Amazon and IBM.[18][19] Columbia is a
founding member of the Association of American Universities and was the first school in the United States to grant the MD degree.[20]
With over 14.5 million volumes, Columbia University Library is the third-largest private research library in the United States.[21]

The university's endowment stands at $14.35 billion in 2021, among the largest of any academic institution. As of October
2020, Columbia's alumni, faculty, and staff have included: seven Founding Fathers of the United States;[n 2] four U.S.
presidents;[n 3] 29 foreign heads of state;[n 4] ten justices of the United States Supreme Court, one of whom currently
serves; 100 Nobel laureates; 122 National Academy of Sciences members;[57] 53 living billionaires;[58] 22 Olympic medalists;
[59] 33 Academy Award winners; and 125 Pulitzer Prize recipients.